CLI_Intro/logging-in.md, before:

# Logging In & Transferring Files

You should already have an account on our systems

## For Macs/Linux - Logging In

1. Open a Terminal (usually under Applications/Utilities on a Mac), or install [iterm2](https://www.iterm2.com/)
2. Cut and paste this into the terminal:

    ssh username@tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu

where 'username' is replaced with your username. Press Enter.

3. Type in your password. No characters will display when you are typing. Press Enter.

### For Macs/Linux - Transferring files

1. Use scp (secure copy, a remote file copying program):

    scp username@tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu:full/path/to/file .

2. Replace 'username' with your username and replace 'full/path/to/file' with the full path to the file you want to transfer. Note that there is a "." at the end of the command, which is where to put the file, i.e. your current directory. You will have to type in your password.

## For Windows - Logging In

Windows needs a terminal to connect with, you have a few options:

1. [Shell for Windows 10](https://www.howtogeek.com/249966/how-to-install-and-use-the-linux-bash-shell-on-windows-10/)
2. [Enable SSH](https://ittutorials.net/microsoft/windows-10/enable-ssh-windows-10-command-prompt/)
OR
3. [MobaXterm](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/)
4. [PuTTY](http://www.putty.org/)

In putty, mobaxterm:
1. Open up terminal.
2. In the Host Name field, type **tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu**
3. Make sure the Connection Type is SSH.
4. Press "Open". It will ask you for your username and password.

In Shell with SSH enabled:

    ssh username@tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu

where 'username' is replaced with your username. Press Enter.

### For Windows - Transferring files

1. Open up WinSCP. If you haven't installed it, get WinSCP [here](https://winscp.net/eng/download.php).
2. In the Host Name field, type **tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu**
2. Type in your username and password.
3. Make sure the File Protocol is SFTP.
4. Press "Login".

Commit message:

link to enable shell for windows 10 copy paste keyboard shortcuts

CLI_Intro/logging-in.md, after:

# Logging In & Transferring Files

You should already have an account on our systems

## For Macs/Linux - Logging In

1. Open a Terminal (usually under Applications/Utilities on a Mac), or install [iterm2](https://www.iterm2.com/)
2. Cut and paste this into the terminal:

    ssh username@tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu

where 'username' is replaced with your username. Press Enter.

3. Type in your password. No characters will display when you are typing. Press Enter.

### For Macs/Linux - Transferring files

1. Use scp (secure copy, a remote file copying program):

    scp username@tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu:full/path/to/file .

2. Replace 'username' with your username and replace 'full/path/to/file' with the full path to the file you want to transfer. Note that there is a "." at the end of the command, which is where to put the file, i.e. your current directory. You will have to type in your password.

## For Windows - Logging In

Windows needs a terminal to connect with, you have a few options:

1. [Shell for Windows 10](https://www.howtogeek.com/249966/how-to-install-and-use-the-linux-bash-shell-on-windows-10/)
2. [Enable SSH](https://ittutorials.net/microsoft/windows-10/enable-ssh-windows-10-command-prompt/)
OR
3. [MobaXterm](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/)
4. [PuTTY](http://www.putty.org/)

In putty, mobaxterm:
1. Open up terminal.
2. In the Host Name field, type **tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu**
3. Make sure the Connection Type is SSH.
4. Press "Open". It will ask you for your username and password.

In Shell with SSH enabled:

    ssh username@tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu

where 'username' is replaced with your username. Press Enter.

To copy / paste in Shell for Windows 10, you may need to [enable keyboard shortcuts](https://www.howtogeek.com/353200/how-to-enable-copy-and-paste-keyboard-shortcuts-in-windows-10s-bash-shell/).
### For Windows - Transferring files

1. Open up WinSCP. If you haven't installed it, get WinSCP [here](https://winscp.net/eng/download.php).
2. In the Host Name field, type **tadpole.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu**
2. Type in your username and password.
3. Make sure the File Protocol is SFTP.
4. Press "Login".
